	Once I wanted to be a research scientist because the most important thing to me is to understand the world and to push the boundaries of what is possible. That attracted me to studying math and physics, tools that we have used to make great discoveries that have produced amazing technologies like satellites and airplanes, and also led to contributions to computing like the internet. But after getting an undergraduate and PhD in physics and spending four years pursuing academic grants and professorships I started to see the limitations involved in a professional career in research in terms of being able to understand the world or push boundaries. Getting a PhD is inherently about pushing boundaries and showing that you can make a research contribution that no one has ever made before, but working as a professional research scientist is about taking what you have already created and spreading that contribution as far as possible and using your knowledge to help the next generations to push their own boundaries. 

For that reason I decided to pursue a career in data infrastructure and data management, where I have worked very hard to continue to push the boundaries in terms of making data available for researchers in hardware design, bioengineering and machine learning using knowledge of database maintenance, architecture and methods of monitoring systems and moving data where it needs to be. But in the end it is definitely the case that the job that is most responsible for building access to data and helping to push the boundaries of what is possible by making data and technology democratically available to the largest number of people is that of a librarian. As stated in the ALA core values of librarianship, democracy, access, intellectual freedom and education and lifelong learning are all fundamental and non-negotiable aspects of what librarians strive for every day. Librarians are not only the core of all research, they are also the core of preserving the fundamental philosophy of the Enlightenment that has produced all the scientific research that has created our modern world.

Librarians require a diverse array of skills, and their main responsibility is to the community. Despite the fact that I do not have skills for interacting with people or responding to their needs directly, I know a lot about organizing information. Because we live in a digital age, it is more important than ever that libraries integrate knowledge of library data and knowledge of technological systems in order to provide both the newest and most relevant information and also give access to older data that was produced before these digital systems became available. For that reason I am interested in digital information systems and jobs like Digital Asset Management, Coordinator of Metadata and Librarian for Digital Publishing, Curation and Conversion. 

The expectations for someone in digital information systems are both to have a deep understanding of how library data is organized, especially library metadata standards, and also to understand digital technology like web interfaces and databases for accessing library materials. In order to make data as easily available as possible there are very strict standards for how each type of data is indexed for retrieval, and all systems for accessing that data have to conform to those standards. Most IT and technical professionals are familiar with technological platforms but do not have the specific background in order to use those platforms to store and manage that data according to the requirements of library professionals, so in addition to a technical and data background a digital information systems librarian must understand the library specific requirements.

 	At Wayland Free Public Library, I created the SCRLC Create Omeka digital collections platform that serves libraries across South Central Regional Library Council's 14-county network. This project required me to prioritize and manage digitization workflows, implement metadata standards, develop taxonomy systems for cross-institutional discoverability, and collaborate with library staff across multiple institutions. I understand both the technical aspects of publishing digital collections and the collaborative relationships needed to work effectively with diverse stakeholders.

There are many resources for getting involved in digital information systems. One of these is the Code4Lib jobs board. This board not only has posts for librarian jobs but also for other jobs at libraries like systems administrator, web developer, data engineer and more. I have made an effort both to apply to these jobs, as I have worked as a data engineer in other fields and many of the technical postings do not require an MSLIS, and to learn and form connections at the libraries that are hiring for these positions in order to understand the technical needs of libraries. These jobs tend to be at universities, and volunteering at a university may also help as a pipeline to accessing these jobs. Some recent examples of the types of jobs that require an MSLIS I am interested in from this site are Systems Librarian and Metadata Librarian. 

To understand more about how old data is digitized and cataloged I reached out to the Strong Museum of Play Digital Archivist Julia Novakovic. From her I learned about a lot of publicly available tools that are used by both librarians and library patrons to preserve old data. Some of these include Omeka, a platform for collecting data from libraries, museums and archives, and Citizen Archivist, a platform that allows people to scan old records or old documents and upload them online to become publicly available. There are even entire organizations whose purpose is to create archives and to provide digital access, like the Empire Archival Discovery Cooperative, which collects physical archival materials in repositories across New York State. 

Libraries have been around for a long time, including ancient libraries in Ugarit and Alexandria. However in the past libraries were mostly the domain of the wealthy, a way to store knowledge the way they stored wealth, and even when libraries became open they were not open to commoners, who frequently could not read, or to women. Since the Enlightenment the goals of libraries have changed, and now they embody the Enlightenment values of intellectual freedom, access and democracy. But as we are moving from an analog to a digital age, libraries need to be able to move quickly in order to preserve those values and continue to be a resource not only for the wealthy and powerful but also for people who can use them to improve their lives and improve our world by pushing the boundaries of what is possible. In my career I have moved from being a research scientist to a data professional and am now pursuing a career as a digital information systems librarian. Every day I am making efforts to create connections at universities and museums to understand new digital technologies and to contribute to the future of libraries. 

